[Alerting][Docs] Combine rule creation and management pages (#101498)
elastic/kibana: docs/user/alerting/create-and-manage-rules.asciidoc

[role="screenshot"]
image::images/rule-flyout-general-details.png[alt='All rules have name, tags, check every, and notify properties in common']

[float]
[[defining-rules-type-conditions]]
==== Rule type and conditions

Depending upon the {kib} app and context, you may be prompted to choose the type of rule to create. Some apps will pre-select the type of rule for you.

[role="screenshot"]
image::images/rule-flyout-rule-type-selection.png[Choosing the type of rule to create]

Each rule type provides its own way of defining the conditions to detect, but an expression formed by a series of clauses is a common pattern. Each clause has a UI control that allows you to define the clause. For example, in an index threshold rule, the `WHEN` clause allows you to select an aggregation operation to apply to a numeric field.

[role="screenshot"]
image::images/rule-flyout-rule-conditions.png[UI for defining rule conditions on an index threshold rule]

[float]
[[defining-rules-actions-details]]
==== Action type and details

> To add an action to a rule, you first select the type of connector:

Author: I left the image but updated the text

[role="screenshot"]
image::images/rule-flyout-connector-type-selection.png[UI for selecting an action type]

> When an alert matches a condition, the rule is marked as _Active_ and assigned an action group. The actions in that group are triggered.

Author: Updated the text

Each rule type defines additional variables as properties of the variable `context`.  For example, if a rule type defines a variable `value`, it can be used in an action parameter as `{{context.value}}`.  

For diagnostic or exploratory purposes, action variables whose values are objects, such as `context`, can be referenced directly as variables.  The resulting value will be a JSON representation of the object.  For example, if an action parameter includes `{{context}}`, it will expand to the JSON representation of all the variables and values provided by the rule type.

You can attach more than one action. Clicking the "Add action" button will prompt you to select another rule type and repeat the above steps again.

[role="screenshot"]
image::images/rule-flyout-add-action.png[You can add multiple actions on a rule]

[NOTE]
==============================================
Actions are not required on rules. You can run a rule without actions to understand its behavior, and then <<action-settings, configure actions>> later.
==============================================

[float]
[[controlling-rules]]

> === Manage rules

Reviewer: Suggest renaming this something like "Must and disable rules"

Author: Renamed

The rule listing allows you to quickly mute/unmute, disable/enable, and delete individual rules by clicking the action button. 

> [role="screenshot"]

Reviewer: I can't tell where this image dropdown is.  Suggest showing it in the full screen.

Author: Replaced the screenshot

> The rule listing allows you to quickly mute/unmute, disable/enable, and delete individual rules by clicking the action button. 

Reviewer: Suggest adding a short sentence on how you open the menu.

image:images/individual-mute-disable.png[The actions button allows an individual rule to be muted, disabled, or deleted,width=75%]

> These operations can also be performed in bulk by multi-selecting rules and clicking the *Manage rules* button:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can perform these operations in bulk by multi-selecting rules, and then clicking the *Manage rules* button:
```

[role="screenshot"]
image:images/bulk-mute-disable.png[The Manage rules button lets you mute/unmute, enable/disable, and delete in bulk,width=75%]

[float]
[[rule-details]]
=== Drilldown to rule details

> The *Rule details* page tells you about the state of the rule and provides granular control over the actions it is taking. 

Reviewer: Do you need to explain how to get to this page?

Author: Added text for this

[role="screenshot"]
image::images/rule-details-alerts-active.png[Rule details page with three alerts]

In this example, the rule detects when a site serves more than a threshold number of bytes in a 24 hour period. Three sites are above the threshold. These are called alerts - occurrences of the condition being detected - and the alert name, status, time of detection, and duration of the condition are shown in this view.

> Upon detection, each alert can trigger one or more actions. If the condition persists, the same actions will trigger either on the next scheduled rule check, or (if defined) after the re-notify period on the rule has passed. To prevent re-notification, you can suppress future actions by clicking on the eye icon to mute an individual alert. Muting means that the rule checks continue to run on a schedule, but that alert will not trigger any action.

Reviewer: Is there an eye icon?  I don't see it in the images.

Also, suggest moving the sentenct "Muting means" to  here:

Mute and disable rules

The rule listing allows you to quickly mute/unmute, disable/enable, and delete individual rules by clicking the action button.  Muting means that the rule checks continue to run on a schedule, but that alert will not trigger any action.

Author: Updated in this commit: https://github.com/elastic/kibana/pull/101498/commits/97482fb695bc174811e512765b8a256c12ef96eb

* Drill-down to <<rule-details, rule details>>

[role="screenshot"]
image:images/rules-and-connectors-ui.png[Example rule listing in the Rules and Connectors UI]

For more information on alerting concepts and the types of rules and connectors available, see <<alerting-getting-started>>.

[float]
=== Required permissions

Access to rules is granted based on your privileges to alerting-enabled features. See <<alerting-security, Alerting Security>> for more information.

[float]
[[create-edit-rules]]
=== Create and edit rules

Many rules must be created within the context of a {kib} app like <<metrics-app, Metrics>>, <<xpack-apm, APM>>, or <<uptime-app, Uptime>>, but others are generic. Generic rule types can be created in the *Rules* management UI by clicking the *Create* button. This will launch a flyout that guides you through selecting a rule type and configuring its properties. Refer to <<stack-rules, Stack rules>> for details on what types of rules are available and how to configure them.

After a rule is created, you can re-open the flyout and change a rule's properties by clicking the *Edit* button shown on each row of the rule listing.

> When you create a rule, you must define the rule details, conditions, and actions.

Reviewer: I think you should remove lines 29 through 36.  

If you do, I'd then change this sentence:

"...selecting a rule type and configuring its properties."

to

"selecting a rule type and configuring its conditions and action type."

Author: Done in this commit: https://github.com/elastic/kibana/pull/101498/commits/2c93360d845faf0643053a6b5e532fa5b2f614b3

. <<defining-rules-general-details, General rule details>>
. <<defining-rules-type-conditions, Rule type and conditions>>
. <<defining-rules-actions-details, Action type and action details>>

image::images/rule-flyout-sections.png[The three sections of a rule definition]

[float]
[[defining-rules-general-details]]
==== General rule details

All rules share the following four properties.

> Name::      The name of the rule. While this name does not have to be unique, the name can be referenced in actions and also appears in the searchable rule listing in the management UI. A distinctive name can help identify and find a rule.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Name::      The name of the rule. While this name does not have to be unique, the name can be referenced in actions and also appears in the searchable rule listing in the *Management* UI. A distinctive name can help identify and find a rule.
```

> Tags::      A list of tag names that can be applied to a rule. Tags can help you organize and find rules, because tags appear in the rule listing in the management UI which is searchable by tag.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Tags::      A list of tag names that can be applied to a rule. Tags can help you organize and find rules, because tags appear in the rule listing in the *Management* UI, which is searchable by tag.
```

> Check every::      This value determines how frequently the rule conditions below are checked. Note that the timing of background rule checks are not guaranteed, particularly for intervals of less than 10 seconds. See <<alerting-production-considerations, Alerting production considerations>> for more information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Check every::      This value determines how frequently the rule conditions below are checked. Note that the timing of background rule checks is not guaranteed, particularly for intervals of less than 10 seconds. See <<alerting-production-considerations, Alerting production considerations>> for more information.
```

Notify::      This value limits how often actions are repeated when an alert remains active across rule checks. See <<alerting-concepts-suppressing-duplicate-notifications>> for more information. +
- **Only on status change**: Actions are not repeated when an alert remains active across checks. Actions run only when the alert status changes.
- **Every time alert is active**: Actions are repeated when an alert remains active across checks.
- **On a custom action interval**: Actions are suppressed for the throttle interval, but repeat when an alert remains active across checks for a duration longer than the throttle interval.

[role="screenshot"]
image::images/rule-flyout-general-details.png[alt='All rules have name, tags, check every, and notify properties in common']

[float]
[[defining-rules-type-conditions]]
==== Rule type and conditions

> Depending upon the {kib} app and context, you may be prompted to choose the type of rule you wish to create. Some apps will pre-select the type of rule for you.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Depending upon the {kib} app and context, you may be prompted to choose the type of rule to create. Some apps will pre-select the type of rule for you.
```

[role="screenshot"]
image::images/rule-flyout-rule-type-selection.png[Choosing the type of rule to create]

> Each rule type provides its own way of defining the conditions to detect, but an expression formed by a series of clauses is a common pattern. Each clause has a UI control that allows you to define the clause. For example, in an index threshold rule the `WHEN` clause allows you to select an aggregation operation to apply to a numeric field.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each rule type provides its own way of defining the conditions to detect, but an expression formed by a series of clauses is a common pattern. Each clause has a UI control that allows you to define the clause. For example, in an index threshold rule, the `WHEN` clause allows you to select an aggregation operation to apply to a numeric field.
```

> Each rule type provides its own way of defining the conditions to detect, but an expression formed by a series of clauses is a common pattern. Each clause has a UI control that allows you to define the clause. For example, in an index threshold rule the `WHEN` clause allows you to select an aggregation operation to apply to a numeric field.

Reviewer: Stopped here
